One area of artificial
intelligence that has
gained a lot of
traction and attention
is machine learning.
Essentially, the idea that
using neural networks or
related technologies
allows computer algorithms
to so so-called
learn across time.
The idea behind machine learning
at its core is to allow
computers using structured
algorithms to acquire knowledge,
extracting patterns
from input data
rather than following
rules themselves.
In other words,
pattern recognition
based on input data
which is structured in
the form of say numerics or
unstructured in
the form of language,
text, images, and so on.
In the insurance
industry for example,
there are some insurers
and others in
the distribution chain
who are using machine learning.
However,
the National Association
of Insurance Commissioners
has identified that
most insurers are only
using 10 to 15 percent
of the data they
collect from customers and
from the environments in which
their customers operate.
Machine learning
potentially could
allow insurers to extract
more information from
this large sample set
of data they have.
For example, they potentially
could analyze claims data better,
they could understand the risk
of their businesses better,
they could use
mathematical models
including machine learning models
to predict demand for products,
and of course to estimate
premiums more accurately.
As we've mentioned in
other lectures, detecting fraud,
identifying patterns of behavior
that are not obvious
to human adjusters who
classically use their
understanding of human behavior
to detect fraud along
with identification of
fraudulent image provision.
Processing claims ensures
using machine learning to make
more automatic claims
reporting a processing
improving potentially
customer satisfaction.
Ultimately, one of
the most important jobs
of an insurance carrier;
making underwriting decisions,
analyzing data,
collecting data from applicants
individually and
in the aggregate,
perhaps flagging errors
or inconsistencies that
underwriters
themselves may not be
able to see or see irregularly.
In addition, computers can check
external sources
such as social media
to verify accuracy of
data and also provide
estimates of risk.
As we mentioned earlier,
algorithmic trading and portfolio
construction by institutions
represents one of
the largest areas of
growth for artificial
intelligence.
A recent survey by
BarclayHedged found that
more than half of
hedge fund surveyed are
currently using artificial
intelligence with some form of
machine learning to help
create portfolio strategies,
trading algorithms, and
make investment decisions.
About 25 percent of
money managers
themselves and not just
their brokers are using it for
trade execution, monitoring,
and decision-making.
Now, understanding
exactly what AI is
to all participants
is a challenge.
In fact, not necessarily
every algorithm could be
classified as
artificial intelligence.
However, responses
to a survey which
is ultimately made
public is likely to mask
the true depth and breadth of
penetration of
artificial intelligence
in the trading world.
Of course, there are
numerous well-known
examples of hedge funds
like Renaissance
Technologies, Bridgewater,
and DE Shaw that are
often mentioned as
pioneers and have been
for decades in the area
of artificial intelligence
and machine learning.
However, due to
confidentiality concerns,
presumably details are limited.
Another area of
both academic research and
industry interest is the area of
textual analysis,
reading news stories,
financial press releases, firms
release of quarterly reports
known as 10Qs,
or annual reports known as 10Ks,
as well as other
regulatory filings
that are available
in public databases.
In recent years,
several hedge funds launched
specifically focusing on
exploitation of this strategy.
However, we haven't heard much
about their success or failure,
which should not be
a surprise to anyone.
Now perhaps the most
famous brand in all of
artificial intelligence to
date is the IBM Watson.
Watson, which gained
its name from
legendary CEO Thomas Watson began
as a computer which beat
human opponents on Jeopardy
nearly a decade ago.
Later, IBM took the famous
IBM Watson name,
focusing on an AI system
capable of collecting,
curating, and analyzing data
including natural language and
natural language
processing ultimately
designed to beat the Turing test.
A number of products across
different types of
businesses has resulted.
The first use for
IBM Watson's team
as far back as 2013
was assisting in
healthcare payment
authorization decisions
in cancer treatments.
This was for a client company
called Wellpoint.
In addition to health care,
other target industries purported
for IBM Watson including retail,
tax preparation, academics,
and other areas of finance.